again like that five four three two one
everybody or welcome to a surprising
edition of Facebook live Q&A I am here
with the amazing the talented the
incomparable voice of the community
Cindy what is up Cindy hello everyone
wow that was like really like I felt
that that was amazing
thanks now working on it gonna be
answering some questions today I are
going to be answering everybody have a
good time yesterday may the fourth we
certainly had a lot of fun around here
was a blast
and a mad shout out to Casey who I hope
is able to hear my voice from the other
room she wins the award for most dressed
up yesterday again without question was
amazing there she is what is up do you
want to come say hello nice I get it I
know it's incredible to see the league
is going to go nuts like they're always
saying like tasty and Courtney need to
come out of the shadows you have to duck
down a little bit there she is
she was dressed as Princess Leia
yesterday it was pretty amazing I wish
you could put it up live that would be
incredibly now one day we have that
technology loves good stuff I had a
blast
alright you want to kick us off some
questions yeah so we actually had some
questions from our last QA rightly so so
this one comes from Jemaine Fabian
Cabrera very active in the community yes
he is and in keeping with our theme any
trauma by the way he is he's the one oh
use it to coma one is good to come on
all right well I'm keeping with our
theme he wants to know who is your
favorite Star Wars character and which
Jedi would you want to be Yoda
there's Jonah yeah exactly so there's
not a lot going on from a physical
standpoint with Yoda but what he proves
is that the mind really is the most
powerful thing and I actually prefer him
when he's a puppet I'm not a big fan of
the CGI Yoda where he's like flipping
and going crazy and they try to
basically say like he can do all the
things physically I think he's more
interesting when he's limited physically
and has to rely entirely on
mine I could have done without Yoda
wielding a lightsaber if I'm completely
honest so I'm more talking like Empire
Strikes Back
Yoda um where man just like but all the
stuff that he's doing with Luke in his
mind and what does he say it's not
different only different in your mind
because Luke is saying oh it's so
different you know it's one thing to
like raise rocks and it's another to try
to get my x-wing out of the Dagobah
swamp and Yoda and all of his wisdom
it's just like the only different your
mind like there are so many great real
empowering statements that come flying
out of that little guy's mouth and then
of course the syntax which is hilarious
judge me by my size do you I mean the
whole mind is just he's amazing so if I
could be anyone I'd be Yoda fresh ways
you know that's pretty cool and we like
broke down his syntax in a linguistics
operator really yeah just because it's
it's still English and like it's still
grammatically sound if you would it's
just it throws us off because that's not
how we speak yes yeah so yeah order it
is yeah but it's still grammatically
correct crazy all right so this next one
comes from Maude a line on Trias in
personal situations with family or old
friends you know holidays dinner parties
etc how do you stay in personal
development mode when they are all far
from interested in it um well let's
differentiate between being in personal
development mode and preaching oh I am I
am fully in listen and learn mode when
I'm around most people to be honest and
because people only see the content that
I create they maybe think that I could
walk around talking like this all the
time which I very much do not yeah I
don't proselytize so if you see me at a
speaking event or you see the content
that we create then yes I'm
externalizing I'm pushing the
information out there but I don't spend
the bulk of my time there
and very much when I'm with my family or
any group of people for the most part
I'm listening right so if you want to be
interesting be interested ask people
questions find out what they're
interested in see what you can learn
from them I really really believe that
everybody has something to teach you and
if you put yourself in that mode you'll
walk away way more enriched now if
somebody asked me a question of course
I'll give them the answer but like even
I recognize I click over into something
when I'm really like going on something
and conveying passion all that and
that's hyper weird in a living room so
like for the most part I mean there are
times sure where like it just seems
appropriate and people are really asking
questions and you get in the groove and
all that but nine times out of ten men
be at a family function have a good time
find out what's going on in people's
lives listen listen learn that's it
Thanks yeah I mean it's definitely a
different scenario when you're with your
friends and family kind of unguarded and
you never want them to feel judged in
any way for sure and I don't remember
what it comes off as for them definitely
and it's also really unsexy to like
always be going on about that kind of
stuff right so like have a normal
conversation find out what's going on in
somebody else's life so could up that's
that's the key all right this next one
comes from Jamie McDonald what are the
best business extreme mental shifts or
questions you have received for example
Tim Ferriss talked about what would I
what would it take to 10x your business
in six months etc okay so stuff like
that well that's a great one which I
think originates with Peter Thiel
certainly you also get Peter dmn was
talking about it don't go for 10%
improvement ten exit the the most
important business notion for me is to
do whatever is going to move you to
your goals right so from a business
perspective knowing what you're trying
to accomplish and then working backwards
looking at how the market is responding
like that's just that's so critical to
be results oriented there's nothing more
important in business and in so speaking
of Tim Ferriss is a really great episode
with Noah Kagan that he did I'm creative
live where they took people that were
trying to like sell something and showed
them how to do it and show them the
mistakes they were making and Noah Kagan
I really think has one of the and he's
got a podcast out there he has one of
the greatest minds on the planet for
going from zero sales to your first sale
like there's just I don't know there's
something about his ability to explain
and his ability to read the whole in the
market find out what people are trying
to actually buy not what you want to
sell what people actually want to buy
he's incredibly gifted at that so if you
do a search for Tim Ferriss Noah Kagan
creativeLIVE it'll come up for sure and
that's just a perfect example and this
question was specifically framed around
business I want to remind everybody of
that so of how to get that sale like
that is just critical and then
remembering the business at the end of
the day companies are people customers
or people so the game you're playing the
psychology so really understanding
people really understanding what that's
about really identifying what's the need
how to solve that need that's another
thing make sure that your business
solves a problem you know something I've
talked about here before people look at
our content they don't understand the
problem we're actually solving because
they think that the content is our
product content is not our product
that's why we give it away for free the
content is our marketing our product
honestly is isn't even the thing that
people are going to think about is our
product our people will think that the
product is the content of the
traditional narrative content that we
put out the comic books the books the
movies and TV shows the video games
they're going to think that's the
product but in reality what we're really
doing is helping artists monetize
because I think that's the only way that
you're going to be able to get the
greatest artist which is how we're going
to have the impact that we want to have
by changing the cultural narrative I
won't go into it here but just really
understanding like what the problem is
that you solve so we know how to help
build the infrastructure and the mark
to help people monetize their creative
content we want to crowdsource a blah
blah blah so you're reaching out to the
people out there they're not going to
know how to do that
creatives have to decide if they're
going to learn how to market or if
they're going to double down on being
creative and if they're going to market
are they also going to figure out how to
create the the things the physical
things that they're selling and that's
how like the publishing industry exists
because they know how to market and
create the physical books that's
obviously being democratized and more
and more people are self-publishing and
so now they're shifting their value add
to the marketing side smell people know
how to do that so anyway it's just
really really understanding like what
problem is it that you're solving
because that will determine the the
products or services that you're putting
out of the market how to tailor them so
just I I'm so tempted to keep going on
about that because that is one of the
most fundamental mistakes that beginning
entrepreneurs make they don't actually
understand what value they bring so like
I'll give you an example if you're
trying to be a personal trainer that one
comes up a lot people want to be a
personal trainer that's one on one that
isn't going to scale so people come and
say you know I'm going to revolutionize
the personal training industry and so
you're going to do what right you're
going to make videos it's that's not
going to work because there are so many
people making these videos or so many
great people out there already solving
that problem so what is it that you're
like what problem are you identifying in
it because it isn't a lack of videos or
tons of videos now holidays and debating
maybe not even almost it's like and this
is a conversation that I had with
somebody will mention who they are but
they I hope realize their real play was
to become the platform with which other
people put their videos up because you
have so many people doing the videos the
value at is to the people making the
videos who want to monetize their
community right that's recognizing the
real problem that you solve and then
being able to build things around that
so that's just super critical and a lot
of times the problem isn't as it's not
the fun thing that you want to talk
about right I want to talk about the
movies I want to talk about the comic
book
but I recognize are plenty of those
being made and so if you're trying to
launch studio which we are then you have
to figure out what's really your value
proposition because there's already
plenty of great Studios out there where
you - all right so this next one comes
from Steve Thompson Tom on your in your
podcast with mine pump you wait what
would you what would be your one magic
Genie wish if you have one okay so in
the mind pump episode I think we talked
about that so first of all mad shout out
to the boys at mine Tom I really really
like those guys Justin sell Adam amazing
and for everybody I just want to point
out that Adam is the fantastically
good-looking and intelligent one or so
he texts me yesterday he thought that
was really funny those guys are amazing
really really fun go check them out mind
pomp media you can follow them on
Instagram and get anything for telling
you that other than I really really like
them so okay there's only one wish in my
opinion to spend on a magic Genie I've
spent an absurd amount of time thinking
about this most people go immediately to
money that's super short-sighted by the
way it's a magic Genie so don't ask for
anything that as a human being you could
already get as for something magical and
to me the answer is through simple
thoughts to be able to change matter
into anything that you want so you could
change a bowl of M&Ms and to a billion
dollars you could change you could
terraform a planet you could cancer I
don't think so it's now healthy tissue
gets supercharged Bram you can literally
do anything so and I say through simple
thoughts so that you could say it's not
cancer it's not healthy tissue instead
of having to actually understand the
biomechanics of it yeah because when you
start and haven't had a chance to level
up your brain which of course is going
to be one of the first things you do but
until you've been able to do that you're
not actually going to understand all
this right so yeah that's it I if
somebody's got a better one I'm just
super open I will immediately adopt it
and get one but that that was me
thinking through like people going I
want to fly I want x-ray vision yeah I
want a trillion dollars but it's always
like finite it's always that one thing
you essentially need to be able to
become the magic Genie that's got to be
the without being trapped in the
bottle of course so all the bottles used
to make me so sad but they always get
out and that's like one of those weird
things as a kid it didn't exactly a fair
enough yeah anyway so as a reminder just
if this content is adding value to you
guys out there in the community please
share it for us we're looking to grow
and if we're adding value that would
just be super appreciate it would be
amazing thank you guys so much and if
you're just joining us by the way it's
Facebook live QA where we answer your
questions so send them in if you're
sitting right now in the live post the
question will try to answer it today if
we don't answer today we want to
certainly answer it in the next one so
virtually every question gets answered
yes we're going to keep plugging away we
have a couple shoutouts first love juice
enjoy so this one comes from Ryan his
birthday is tomorrow
I love to get a high from you and Lisa
nice well Ryan on my behalf a happy
birthday man amazing amazing and oh well
Lisa just gotta get it on a mic say it
again I hope you can hear that Ryan
that's from Lisa and I was gonna say
until she chimed in why are you talking
that ah to shame her and to get her to
be more social because my wife I was
giving her a hard time it was really
stressing around this morning so I
backed off but it would be amazing to
see her out there more and people are
definitely like commenting on my socials
because she doesn't reply and she does
want to so we're hopefully our
internship program because my wife is
not lazy let me tell you this not
because she's just like oh whatever
it'll help alleviate so many things that
are just eating her time alive yeah
that'd be great and then we have a few
more shadows peter staples tuning in
from the UK naomi Hernandez from El
Salvador
and Daniel breeze from Canada respect
these all that lies to me they love it
well thank you guys all different time
zones and so it's must appreciated you
have to begin to watch it moving alright
this next question comes from Dan bro
fitness
goodness do you find brain injuries sir
please secure them interesting my dad
had a leaking blood vessel in his brain
many years ago and had to have a brain
operation which now causes minor
symptoms similar to epilepsy I would
love to learn more about it where would
you turn okay so let's start at the
beginning do I find it fascinating I
find it more terrifying than fascinating
I'm gonna be really honest so we all
have that thing that like scares us to
death and - brain injury I try not to
think too much about it because you have
a way of like making that [__] in like
bringing into your life and not like a
secret guy but I don't know just
thinking about it too much it seems like
a really bad strategy so yes it freaks
me out
it is very intriguing the repair side
and I'm incredibly interested in where
this is all going and if I could just
bring every conversation back around to
human what we decide to human Deus Deus
days human Deus homo homo Deus re h om o
space d u es de us de us having a stroke
over here in the comments yeah that'd be
perfect do that by you've all Noah
Hariri
it is it is an unbelievable book and he
talks about brain up he talks about the
notion of what's going to have when we
start doing brain upgrades it isn't a
book about brain upgrades but what the
world looks like when AI algorithms our
ability to biologically engineer
ourselves to adjust our own biology when
all of that stuff really comes to
fruition like what does the world look
like he said something I have not fully
synthesized this book yet I'm still
reading it but like it is rare that a
book captures me like this this book has
totally got me like all I want to do is
read I don't want to be doing the Q&A
right now I just read it like it is so
unbelievable we're really trying to get
this guy in the show if anybody watching
has a link to him dude let him know we
want to get him on but anyway as people
begin to change their brain it is going
to change everything and in the book he
talks about how the gap will if because
almost certainly
people in society will opt not to
augment themselves and he said the gap
will grow larger between people who
augment and people who don't
larger than between Homo sapiens and
Neanderthals so I just thought he goes
even farther to say that basically
people who choose not to will become
extinct in owns or in terms I think he's
right so that's a very long wave thing
yes it funded incredibly incredibly
interesting now where would I turn I
think there are really two just
extraordinary Minds writing on the topic
right now and that's David Eagleman and
BS Ramachandran
I don't know that Iran has written a lot
though he is incredible you can watch
episodes of impact theory on all three
of them David is probably the one
working most closely with this because
he believes in adjusting sensory
perception but he's not a big believer
in actually opening the brain and
augmenting it that way so but they would
be amazing jumping-off points start
their researching that stuff and you can
always drop in brain and augmentation
into Google and see where that takes you
it will take you somewhere fascinating
I'm sure take you down around at home
alright so this next one comes from
Naomi Hernandez she says love IT so much
thank you so Tom how do you create and
maintain a sense of urgency to make
things work when you are not really
backed into a corner in terms of money
keeping Naomi Naomi what an amazing
question all right here's how I do it
first of all I promise you loving what
you are trying to create is the most
important part okay it's 80/20 right 80%
Beauty 20% rage but that the 80% beauty
is like what you want to do the thing
you're trying to accomplish so
captivates you that you just can't help
yourself but think about it and that's
why I always tell people inside you
right now is something that you think
about all the time something that you
find interesting it's not a full-blown
passion yet I get that you can have to
develop it in the pursuit of mastery
you'll realize whether it's going to be
something you're going to fall in love
with and then ultimately turns into a
full-blown passion but like there are
things you're interested in
right
and people always write them off because
they can't see a path to making money at
it okay that that's a whole nother thing
and we'll have to get into learning
business principles and like figuring
out how to solve a problem within that
world and the difference between take
videogames for instance I love playing
video games but I'm probably not going
to make a living playing video games but
I also like the world of video games I
like the artwork I like the concept I
like the people that it attracts I like
all of that so being in the world of
video games is in and of itself
interesting so for instance you could go
be an accountant for a video gaming
company it isn't playing video games for
living but it might be more exciting for
you than being an accountant in an
actuarial firm or something like that so
it's coming down to being in the
universe and then if you really
specifically want to you know make a
living doing something closer to that
then really diving in and finding out
what are the problems being solved
within that thing but anyway so back to
your question how do you keep that fire
going when you don't have real financial
concerns so one it's the falling in love
with it too it's really getting into the
wanting to solve the problem so for me
it's like I really want to solve the
problem so I'm thinking about it in
moments of downtime like this morning in
the shower I had some amazing ideas
which can't wait to share with the team
and I thought share that yes you're
absolutely right and that's because I'm
I'm excited about it and then the third
thing that I do is I remind myself that
only momentum matters so I'm constantly
thinking about it I'm forcing myself to
do it I allocate my time accordingly I
audit my behaviors based on the belief
that urgency matters that you have to
move quickly and I've literally just
repeated that repeated that repeated
that and made it a part not only of my
own internal life but also reinforced it
in the team here so that it gets that
good back so that we all believe in
speed we're all focused on that we all
believe in momentum each one of us was
pushing so on a day where I'm not the
one who's creating the momentum somebody
else is because we're all trying to get
to that thing and then like this one's
going to be a little controversial but
there are things that success affords
me and I always move the goalposts right
so 8020 again so 80% of me is like oh my
god I can't believe how much I've
created and done for myself it's amazing
I've been able to help my family and oh
my god this is wonderful and yay we've
succeeded and then 20% of me is like
dude like really this is where you're
going to stop this is like you can't
terraform you can't build rocket ships
you can't do some of the amazing things
that you want to do there's so many
things that I find interesting that I
want to bring to the world that I just
don't have the capital and access to
resources to do and I want to make sure
that I get there so yeah if I had to
boil it all down to one thing
be excited about what you're trying to
create that's it get excited the
restaurant truth bombs right backwards
so we actually have like a community
update so Josh mark Joshua Martell he
took your advice from one of the QA s
when he went to the Epcot International
Art Festival and we shadowed that artist
that he was following yes so he said
that he recently received a thank-you
note saying I really appreciated your
time and willingness to help me out and
he also included a gift card for $100
for art supplies nice down and most
importantly that's the beginning of a
real Road exactly right so think of that
as a seed planet it's not like the
punchline of going on donating your time
to somebody is $100 giftcard
really think about how much he must have
impacted that person for him like this
like a biblical or six weeks behind
right oh maybe maybe even longer than
that for him to be thinking about him
heal for him to send that and have been
so moved so now when there comes an
opportunity where he could extend
something to somebody else I promise you
Joshua's going to be one of the first
people that he thinks up and it's not
about having one person that thinks of
you like that it's about having 25 50 a
hundred people that think of you like
that like really like continuing this as
a method to give value first
I just cannot stress that enough to give
value first with no expectation of
return you do that enough with enough
people they feel like wow man like this
guy really look after me you really
wanted something great for me
and out of that will come something
amazing think of yourself on a long
timeline don't think of it like I did
something this weekend by next weekend I
better have gotten the payoff like do
something today it might not pay up four
five six seven years right but you do
that enough I'm telling you it is
incredible the avalanche of cool stuff
that we come your way so that's awesome
Joshua I think you were one of the
brightest shiniest spots of this
community just good vibes like poor off
that kid if he keeps that up good things
good things laughs he's also working
really hard in his own art she's been
credible it's already good and I just
can't imagine what's going to be in ten
years so it's gonna keep getting better
which is so cool all right this next one
comes from Peter staples I love all the
content so thank you for your time and
effort Tom when networking or just
generally meeting new people how do you
tell whether they have a growth mindset
or not that's in that moment is their
way to know um sure but why do we care
so all right well here's how bring it
down yeah all right first of all I think
it matters why you want to know that I'm
going to presume that you want to
partner with them that the guy gives me
a framework with which to work off so if
you're trying to network to find a
partner and you want to know if they
have a growth mindset to be a partner I
don't have a set list of questions that
I ask people in a networking situation
I missed path the questions so the other
half is and if they're fixed would you
just be compassionate and the
conversation or try to encourage them
and open their eyes to a growth mindset
never try to encourage them never try to
open their mind to a growth mindset of
popularizing Danger Danger Will Robinson
don't go down that path a you will come
across like a dick I promise
and then be there's nothing more likely
to shove somebody into a fixed mindset
corner than saying hey bro you have a
fixed mindset let me help you out like
they're they're going to react like you
were radioactive so do not do that
always meet people with compassion and
then also honestly like if you're
focused more
on and I'll get back to the assumption
that you're looking for a partner in a
second but always be looking to see what
you can learn from somebody one people
love that they love to teach they love
to give their knowledge so it's not it
will not be read as something that's
parasitic it will be read it's like whoa
this person really is interested they're
really keen to hear what I have to say
and it only gets weird when it's two
learners that meet and they're each like
trying to learn from the other it might
know what he wants to click over into
teaching mode but you'll find that that
you know people are pretty easy to get
into a mode of talking about what
excites them what they're passionate
about to offer you something that will
be empowering for you so I always lead
with that and then realizing whether
somebody has a growth mindset when
people talk they cannot help but reveal
themselves so I just try to get people
to talk so you don't need to ask them
the set list of questions trust me it
will come out of them it will come
pouring out losing out the real concern
is whether you understand a growth
mindset well enough to detect it and
other people I was thinking about this
sort of obsessively this morning the
notion that the only people that really
can read other people are people to
understand themselves the reason for
that is biomechanical so the gift that
nature has given us to be able to really
understand people develop is called a
theory of mind where you're looking at
somebody and you're able to project into
their mind and how they'd be perceiving
you in the situation the way that we do
that is by mimicking their facial
expressions or body posture all that
stuff because we're literally then
internalizing literally feeling their
feelings but if you don't understand
what that feeling is what the origin of
that feeling is when you have it it's
sort of just a blind experience so
really developing the self-awareness to
understand like what your motives are
what your emotions mean what's
triggering them where it's all coming
from gives you the ability to understand
in other people and it's just about
doing the deep work to say I'm having
this emotion what's this based on they
come up with a hypothesis test it is
that right is that really what is coming
from maybe not but doing that like
understand thyself first the the
greatest form of mind control this and
the exact globe is from da Vinci the
greatest form of control is control over
one's self
right so I always so that actually is
the direct quote the way I think of it
is the greatest form of mind controls
control over one's own mind so the point
of being Jedi is not to control other
people it's really to control yourself
and being able to understand and control
yourself you can understand people and
influence them so but that's where it
all starts so if you really do have that
level of awareness and really do
understand a growth mindset and fixed
mindset within yourself enough you will
I promise
recognize that in other people very
rapidly you just have to get them
talking okay all right so this next one
comes from gabriel de de liberal e delle
Erbe raleigh
i would like to know about your opinion
on the symbolism on the matrix as a
whole and especially on the part where
Neal surrenders to Agent Smith gets
reassimilated and the world has changed
what meaning do you take away from that
scene are we talking about the second
and the third one because in the first
one which is the only one that I
acknowledge he doesn't get reassume
elated so I cannot help you with thank
you anything in two and three I've seen
them I was so mortified and heartbroken
that I have literally put them out of my
mind I remember virtually nothing there
are amazing amazing amazing breakdowns
on the symbolism which I've not gone
hardcore into even on the first one
symbolism ie not the allegory but the
symbolism on YouTube go watch those
videos they will blow your mind it will
be so much better than I could possibly
hope to do here people that have really
really gone into the symbolism and all
three films and what they mean hearing
other people break down the second and
the third films it's like whoa the the
Wachowskis really may have been like
coherent through all three like if
you're sort of on there like ultra
intricate super new one you have to
understand every word that somebody is
saying way like it may all actually be
there but as films the second two don't
work if I could just be real born yeah
[Music]
because there's a reason that I also
made member yeah okay wasn't very
helpful but but you know use a resource
so we jointed you somewhere it's like
the allegory in the first film at some
point alright so as a reminder because
you know the David Garland's episode is
coming out it can't begin on May 21st
we'll be kicking off our hashtags summer
ready IT challenge that Tom is going to
be announcing so check out the league or
Tom social channels Instagram and
Facebook for more details
yeah upcoming just a little preview of
that and I can have to get ready to
suffer that's why they don't hide Goggin
so and look there man I think anybody
that really gets lean suffers so this is
all about doing something to build some
mental toughness to embrace suffering to
get a result which i think is really
important in life and then also you'll
be pool ready for summer so we can't
hate on that but at the end of the day
I'm really it really was born of that
episode of wanting to find something
that I cared enough about to do that
would put me in a place of suffering and
so what we've come upon is just getting
real summer ready so I'm going to get
nice and lean the only backstop we'll
put on that is my face does sort of look
weird when I'm super lean so I have to
be a little cognitive I gave my wife
like basically the brake pad so if it's
getting too much you pull the record or
press the brakes and we'll stick of 1/81
one metaphor yeah no but yeah that's the
thing so it's going to start with the
three day fast so anybody that's
interested in that on the lead-up to the
day David Goggins episode and kicks off
in the 21st right so case off on the 20
minutes yeah so one day so and they call
it 7:00 or 8:00 p.m. all will determine
that later will be the last bit of food
that you consume and then not for
seventy two full hours will we consume
food again
it's one of those things if you have
eating issues any sort of food disorder
you need to stay away from it first of
all just like know thyself do it under a
doctor's supervision I've been
experimenting self experimenting with
nutrition and my own body for a very
very very long time so I'll be doing
what I know works for me so people it's
not necessarily a game of doing exactly
what I do I'll be broadcasting what I do
so you guys can hear about it see the
results all of that good stuff but at
the end of the day like you need to be
super cautious very careful seek a
doctor's supervision I hate having to
say all that stuff but we have to say
all that stuff serious oh and I was
going to include it in the details so
get it out long remote or no yes alright
so this next question comes from
Philippa Maya you say Monday through
Friday you're always working or working
out what are your strategies for
avoiding burnout I'm trying to balance
my more than full time job as a
scientist and also watching my career as
a fiction writer on the side I'm working
all the time
starting to get pretty tired love it
love IT so please keep doing what you're
doing
Wow suppress joke is that yeah boss
fashion like as a scientist and fiction
writer I'm bout it
hashtag word so here's my advice number
one be excited okay so if you love being
a scientist that's going to help if you
love being a writer that's going to help
and then give yourself 100% permission
to know the difference between fatigue
and burning out if you're fatiguing get
off your lazy ass and get back to work
and literally say that to yourself don't
tolerate laziness don't tolerate giving
in to your lesser impulses if you think
I wanted to be reading contracts this
morning you were out of your mind if you
think I want to get out of it my wife
has the room so cold right now because
she's like full kedo so for whatever
reason when my wife goes for keto she
gets really hot I do not wish I did so
like it is an icebox in our bedroom it's
crazy
not in my bedroom
I wanted nothing more than to stay under
the covers so you have to have rules
that get you out if the pushing fatigue
you have to be willing to suffer
mentally like can I be real for a second
always okay great always perfect 99% of
the time when somebody says I want to
avoid burning out in my head there is a
voice screaming toughen the [__] up
buttercup that's that like at the end
because that's what I have to constantly
tell myself like it is really [__]
rare that I take time off really rare
Monday through Friday push waves I am
way more chill on the weekend but
honestly my weekends or most people's
hard core but it's definitely less than
what I do during a week it isn't because
I'm experiencing pleasure the entire
time it is because I make demands of
myself it's because I make big demands
myself so people need to make some crazy
[__] demands but like that's fatigue
they're burnout is real and you will get
to a point where it is now
counterproductive and it is not helping
you I don't think most people get there
I will I don't know her so I will do the
courtesy of assuming that she really can
tell the difference and that she pushes
through fatigue and she tells herself to
suck it up and like really [__] push
through and all of that and now we're at
the point where we're reaching true
burnout take time off do nothing stare
at a wall watch terrible TV eat bad food
go sit on a beach like when you know
you've put in the work yeah it feels
good to take you right like I want a
[__] chill I'm in a chill and I won't
think twice about it man like when my
wife and I take our I always want to
call it a honeymoon I'm a baby I know
you're listening right now I made you
start calling that [__] honeymoon
because it's like we just take a
honeymoon everything just the way it is
easy there it is alright so on our
honeymoon
[__] I read fiction it is the
only time I allow myself to read fiction
it is amazing I totally like sink into
it I do not make the demand that it's
like amazing fiction it's going to move
my life forward entertain me that's it
that
by the man I said by the pool I do
nothing I do not I'm not ambitious
during that time I am totally chill I
just want to relax and have a good time
if I go to Vegas I drink alcohol I spend
most of the time intoxicated
it is totally chill time I'm not trying
to move my life forward but I have no
guilt because way all the other time I'm
going at a hundred miles an hour
so know thyself be honest if you're
pushing that hard then allow yourself
the time off but I don't I think Monday
to Friday like it's not a lot to ask
yeah I mean it sounds like in her
scenario because she's working more than
40 hours a week or whatever in her
that's in her Science job bro she said
more than full-time job joke and then
doing this on the side as well so it
sounds like if you're passionate about
both of them
then just keep hustling at it but also
allow yourself to take those breaks yes
and and I will I will assume like always
there on the side of positivity I'll
assume she's crushing it this is real
burnout for everybody else
most people just aren't pushing hard
enough right that's how bad you want it
that's in fact that's important to know
how bad you want it I don't think
there's a there is no reason that you
should be ambitious nothing better about
being ambitious if you are ambitious and
you're trying to get something then you
have to make incredible demands of
yourself there's absolutely nothing
morally wrong or socially wrong or
anything with somebody who wants to live
a life of minimize stress I fully
respect that's not the path I've chosen
but I fully respect I totally get that
yeah so it's just about being honest
with what you want what you're trying to
achieve and then if you haven't
succeeded yet you're not doing enough
that the market has just answered that
question for you I agree all right so
the we have a couple more shout out in
the comments we've got Peter from the UK
Naomi from El Salvador
I think disease already Mary soul from
Mexico no no
heat oh yeah mojitos
ha the wall from India and Felipa from
Portugal questions always and yes a
bogus movie all right this next crushing
comes from Akash Akasha laziness
procrastination how do you deal with it
the second thing is not working
interesting so systems so the five four
three two one is what she's talking
about comes from Mel Robbins is a system
but awesome if it's not working for you
then get a new system for me everything
comes back to identity so I don't use
five four three two one either because
without tying it to identity for me and
just wouldn't be very impactful so
identity identity identity so I am the
type of person that I am the type of
person that doesn't procrastinate I am
the type of person that isn't going to
give in to my laziness so I usually
don't try to carve out the impulse so
people will hear me routinely say I am
profoundly lazy because I have that
impulse like my impulse is always to lay
in bed my impulse is always to stop
working my impulse is always to just
chill but I'm the type of person that
doesn't give in to that that's part of
my identity so I pushed me on that so
that becomes a trigger for a habit loop
so when and have it looser huge huge
huge so belief systems identity habit
loops so belief system goes too
complicated to go into now so let's talk
about the other two and if you want to
know my belief systems twenty five
bullet points you can go search it out
and find it which it should be on our
website but it's not I've told people
that it is shame on me so we need to get
that up but so I have a 25 point belief
system so that is important to have you
need to know like what are the what's
the framework by which should be the
world the systems that you're going to
use identity so Who am I what are the
things that I to be who I say I am what
do I have to do so an example I'm the
type of person that gets out of bed in
10 minutes so because I don't want to
give in to my lazy impulses so I look at
the clock soon as I realize I'm awake I
have 10 minutes get out
bad if I get out of bed in that time
that i emotionally reward myself if I
fail to get out of bed in that time then
i emotionally punish myself by being
disappointed and in my performance and I
didn't live up to who I say I am and you
know I mean it's not like I'm not
crippled by it but it's there and for
that day and on days I've missed it I've
actually confessed it like during if
something has only happened once since
we started doing these but it does
happen every now and then I'm just
feeling way too lazy or like what
happened at one time I pushed it and
instead of getting out of bed in like
nine minutes and 50 seconds I got out of
bed in like ten minutes and three
seconds so like literally as I had sat
up and had got off the bed yet it
clicked over so oh yeah you look at the
clock so otherwise it was like very
specific you said oh ten minutes and
three things because literally I saw
everything I change
I saw a change as well you're like that
and I can't okay so I couldn't take the
wind that day right right so that's
really important thing and then yeah so
belief system systems identity I think
those with the initial dream I said and
finding what works for you yeah yeah so
this next question comes from Orlando
Hill Tom so what if your passion for
your job is what you like doing like
playing video games but you still don't
know how to get through what you really
get through to what you really want to
do or how you want to get there and you
don't want to stop and you don't want to
stop yeah
so you don't quite another passage yeah
so he he enjoys what he's doing which is
writing video games yes is his career
but he's not quite sure I guess what I
mean I'm living it yeah all right so
this is where you just have to learn
general business principles so I'll give
you a few now so the only thing you can
really monetize is creation of value 99%
of the time the way that you create that
value is by solving a problem a nice
pain point so identifying that thing
you're interested in where is the pain
point that you can solve so playing
video games straight up there's there's
only two
who answers that I know of maybe there's
a third I'll make this one up I don't
know that this actually exists but
probably teaching other people how to
play a video game so becoming a coach is
probably a thing and then the other two
are video game tester so go to a company
that has the pain point of hey we made
this game we actually don't know if it
works properly are there bugs in the
system as you can play it and third is
professional athlete so actually playing
video games for a living for prize money
getting indoor sponsored so those are
the three ready-made paths to playing
video games and actually getting paid to
do so one opportunity if you can find if
there's another thing in there that I
haven't thought of because this isn't
the path that I'm seeking out there may
be other answers but those are the three
that you could plug into right now
alternatively doing what we're talking
about earlier which is a universe of so
I want to play video games is really
shorthand for I love video games all of
the universe' love being around it and
if none of those three actively playing
is a way that you want to monetize it
then you go into okay I just want to be
involved in this maybe I have artistic
talent I want to help design view again
so have coding tone I want to help build
video games maybe I have leadership
talent and I want to manage a team
that's working on a video game or direct
video game to produce video game
whatever the case may be or maybe you
want to sell video games and you want to
be a marketer for a video game company
or there's just a chameleon I could keep
going but there's a million universe of
options within that and then just like
the simple the dead simple answers do
the deep work of figuring it out like
ones last time that you sat and said for
the next two hours I'm going to think
about this and I'm going to start with
30 minutes of meditation and I'm going
to not think about anything totally
clear in my mind I'm going to get into a
calm creative state alpha wave stage
through the meditation after that I'm
going to think it's a for the next hour
and a half and I'm going to keep the
computer next to me and I'm going to
just take notes and all the ideas of pop
pop up that find somebody who is living
the life you want to live model yourself
after them so who's making a living in
video games the way you want to make a
living in video games go to them and
give them the magical speeches I've
given to everybody which is find the
person who's living the life you want to
live and say exactly the following words
I'm going to work
harder and smarter for you for free for
the next 90 days at the end of the 90
days by proving myself valuable valuable
enough that you'd rather pay me then
lose me then pay me if not the mache
cans in part ways and what I got in
exchange is connections and knowledge
and you got free labor and so go find
that person who's living your life a lot
of times people haven't even like
identified somebody that's living their
ideal life and I think having that model
knowing exactly do that is taking a
photo off the internet of them and
putting it on your fridge to remind you
obsessively learning about their story
how did they do it what were the steps
that they were that they did you know it
at least worked one time so yeah that's
it yeah and some people make binders for
that like low they actually have the
photo and then like basically all the
informations they pulled out and they
like essentially read it like a book
every day I was like that alright so we
have about like 20 or 15 minutes left in
the live and we have a couple more
questions so we're going to try and
rapid crank them out for everyone who's
tuned in so this next question comes
from Doris can as a small business the
hardest thing to do with hire your first
employee who was your first employee
what did he or she do for your company
what do you look for in terms of hiring
your first employee what if you wire
wise to hire at a top dollar someone who
can take you to the next level at an
early stage or would it be better to
hire five employees to help lessen the
workload versus one high income there's
no way to answer that universally so I'd
have to know your business I'd have to
know your pain points that's what it
really comes down to what is your pain
point I would also if I'm going to go
sort of high end I'd rather a partner
than a paid employee because that puts a
gun to your head and now you have burned
in most companies one of the biggest
expenses is going to be payroll so you
want to keep that down as much as you
can the example that I can give at Qwest
the first employee that we hired
although very briefly was somebody to do
like the manual stuff go we started
having like to do fulfillment and move
things around like we needed somebody
that could like rent a u-haul truck and
go pay
ingredients up and like all that kind of
stuff though first of all there were a
bunch of us already so I think what
there was five of us six of us so you
had the three founders myself including
my two partners you had Lisa and Shannon
Ron's wife kay I can't remember in the
beginning she like did any maybe she did
like a little bit some measuring and
stuff and so all of us were working for
free so you get a lot of momentum
created by people that are incentivized
from an equity performance standpoint
and so they're not drawing a salary and
that is incredibly beneficial and when
your company isn't worth anything like
that's the time to bring somebody in if
they're willing to gamble and say I
would rather have equity than a paycheck
that's where things get really really
interesting so they're gonna have to
keep your day job they're going to do
this nice and weekend which is exactly
what we were doing so doing that can be
incredibly incredibly useful and it is
way better to have a smaller percentage
of a huge pie than a hundred percent of
a smaller pie
so get partners on if you can occur
people that you trust you have
established relationships with the
amazing first sort of paid employee
again pain point a bookkeeper is the so
the first would all call non core
function employee that we brought on to
impact theory was a bookkeeper and that
is because dude you want to talk about a
time suck good lord
so even just to understand it well
enough I would lose the vast majority of
my time so bringing somebody on that was
part-time
bringing somebody on that could do that
so that was a huge pain point that was
very easy to identify knew what a time
suck that was going to be so we brought
somebody on yeah so pain point what
takes up your time read the e-myth
revisited by Michael Gerber he talks
about working on your business not in
your business that's a huge huge huge so
find out what's taking your time so if
it's making your widget bring someone on
that can make your widget so that you
can really look at the business from a
much higher macro level and really
figure out where you need to go and you
said to go fast alright so the next one
this one comes from syndra hell's mark
well it was very it was a multi-layered
question
what possibilities do you see with VR in
the future I just finished the book
ready player one and it became the
truest and became truly excited by yes
I'd also like least eight I think yeah
ready player one is is I think the
vision for what is going to happen - the
dystopian future I don't think there's
any reason that we would need it's
certainly possible but I don't think
that it that it is a necessary part of
this so yeah I think VR and AR is the
future I think is going to change
everything I think that it will be as
powerful as the internet was maybe more
so but certainly it will be on par with
the Internet
that's how deeply and for people that
grew up with the Internet I don't think
you realize how much it's changed
everything so it will change everything
the way the internet change everything
is massive idea alright this next
question comes from Jason
al ream Tom I recently started following
podcasts similar to yours and I'm
finding myself just absolutely
intimidated by all the great people I'm
trying to learn from how do you surround
yourself with greatness and not feel
intimidated and small um I think that so
it's really twofold one I'm not afraid
to be I'm not afraid to feel small I
think there's a lot of power in that in
so I envision literally envision myself
sitting at people's feet and I have a
willingness to sit at anybody's feet so
I don't need people to see me on a
pedestal I don't need that that's not my
thing
so when you are very very comfortable
being the learner sitting at other
people's feet learning from them that
you understand that on the long enough
timeline you will aggregate those skills
and talents more effectively than
anybody who's ever lived that's how I
keep myself from being consumed by the
notion of sitting at other people's feet
I think myself in a very long timeline
and I just know other people aren't
willing to be as humble as I'm willing
to be they're not willing to humiliate
themselves embarrass themselves the way
that I am and in order to accumulate the
knowledge and then view themselves on a
long timeline so I would encourage you
to do that don't think of yourself is
the sum total of some grand learning
equation like you're in the middle of
something so you're not after the equal
sign yet you're still in the middle of
that thing so most people I think think
they stop
sort of learning it like 18 19 it's just
not true
so you're still learning still growing
so don't judge yourself as if you're
complete and they're complete and
they're just better than you they're
just another person that you can learn
from learn from learn from and that over
time the student will become the master
and you will turn their face to
alabaster if anybody knows that song so
yeah that's how I do that I'm just so so
so grateful that these people take the
time to educate me like it's amazing we
live in an amazing time where people
want to share their secrets it's
unbelievable yeah I'm eternally grateful
to authors for the same reason so yeah
don't get lost in that see you seven
long timeline super awesome all right so
the next one comes from Laura Dufresne
can you have another girl you want to
know only rock climber extraordinaire
can you clarify the distinction between
fatigue and burnout I'm learning to take
note of my body if my body is breaking
down and I'm getting physically ill I
know it's time to slow down I've been
known to work through illness until I
nearly have pneumonia and I've always
struggled with feeling guilty when I
have to slow down and rest
yeah so Laura you're amazing and you are
one of the brightest spots in this
community so I say the following with
all the love and respect in the world
that's crazy and there are people in my
life namely my wife who have that same
trouble I'm just like hey what are you
doing like about the time you're about
to get pneumonia like that's ridiculous
so do and believe that which moves you
towards your goal if your goal is not
pneumonia stop relax like take a second
that I don't yeah I don't understand
like the feelings of guilt around that
it's like so for instance I am super
ambitious I have huge demands that I
place in myself but when I go to bed I
remind myself you have one job right now
and that job is to sleep that way I
don't like my mind and start racing it
ha like you know I'm trying to dude
right now it's not the time to be
ambitious right now is the time to
slow down right now is the time to sleep
you don't have another job you don't
have problems to solve right now you
need to sleep because that's how you're
going to get the things you want and
because thinking that way moves me
towards my goals because I need to be
cognitively optimized to do that I need
to sleep so I'm not conflicted so if
you're really trying to get somewhere in
life you want to push hard hard hard but
if you're literally breaking down either
go figure out how to fix your body your
immune system whatever it may be you're
making mistakes there but until you
solve those you need to back off so yeah
that yeah that's just like do and
believe that which misery towards your
goals and so I don't see how grinding
yourself into the dirt serves you I just
don't see it and to because I don't see
that and I would say it relax yeah I
mean that make sense like I have
definitely fallen into that pitfall
myself it did have pneumonia once and I
just kept going you told me about that
yes and did like freak you out a little
yeah but the thing is like I only felt a
little bit weak like not all the time
and so I kind of didn't really think
about it too much it was like an active
it was an afterthought it was very
strange I know so I have it was a -
basically like almost collapsed and I
was like oh okay like I'm probably still
sick yeah that's really interesting
because if you're not giving signals I
get it right like I'm not going to slow
down I think that I can push through
right but like it was it was signals
that I feel like weren't that bad so
it's like you know I would get like a
little winded going up the stairs but
I'm like okay which who doesn't get
winded a little bit but it was like
worth probably worse than normal but it
just almost became that like new set
point so that's tough to like throw
shade at because if you're feeling like
strong enough to keep going then keep
going yeah and that's the battle usually
how that end is going so I guess yeah
it's a trial and error you have to
eventually learn how to say okay like I
have to back off we have gotten better
at and you definitely have to you
have to find the line we're inside you
know you've done enough right inside you
know like I'm going hard for that cake
and even if it's like just create rules
for yourself right so Monday through
Friday I'm either working or working out
okay well that's easy to determine am i
working or working out right now no I'm
not I'm like goofing up okay well then
you're not living up to what you said
you were going to do so one thing I
don't know I think I've talked about
this before but just in case I haven't
like there are times where I only do
things that are pleasurable so like on
the weekend I really really try to avoid
anything so even though I work I really
try to avoid anything that isn't
pleasurable work so for anything I'm not
going to read a contract on a weekend
and let's like it is [__] dire
straits and like I have like there's
some massive time crunch and it has to
be done otherwise that is a Monday
through Friday activity let me tell you
right now but like I'll go do I'll reply
to social comments because I love doing
that it's a lot of fun so I do that
there's certain content that I would be
willing to create on the weekends
because that's a lot of fun doing
research I love do that reading I love
it I do that
so things like that like on the weekends
I'm really trying to optimize for
excitement so it doesn't feel like work
right so and that's in fact going back
to giving a really specific way to avoid
burnout like making rules like that so
Monday through Friday yep got a grind
and then also I segment my time so from
8:00 to 10:00 it's called my importance
important thing things time so that's
where I do all that grindy [__]
first of all I do it right away so if
I'm reading contracts like for sure if I
have a contract to read those two hours
of taking up a contracts and I may have
to read them more later in the day as
well but that I try to organize it in
very very rare that I'll read a contract
after 7:00 p.m. so usually around 6:30
I've moved into social mode and now I'm
responding to comments I'll do that
until I go to bed so things like that
where it's like you know okay God like
maybe what what are we over time
why don't I let any Allah say I don't
have any alarms going off before 11:00
literally I need to push that back a
minute or two so yeah
rules like that will really help you
like segment things out so that you're
not like because - because I start
getting really tired around like 7:30
and at like 7:30 and like I know I got a
bed at 8:00 uh which is why it's not
hard for me to go to bed at 9:00 by the
way so for me like to be doing contract
stuff is going to be suboptimal all that
so I need something that's fun and
exciting so make sense all right so we
finished some of our rapid-fire
questions that Morgan came in or that
was ridiculous more questions came in if
that might be enough I guess all right
but we'll end with a quick shout out to
Yannick either this weekend he's doing
major preparations for a trip to
Barcelona to end mine Valley you OH
because it's all thanks to the impact
Theory League Wow like a shameless plug
so yeah no shame and plug in that so I'm
really excited about that community so
thanks everybody for being a part of it
and helping it grow and if you haven't
already go check it out it's called the
impact theory we just type it in to
Facebook and you'll find it most
definitely and you will be dealing with
this incredible woman that she is all
over that thing so get in there meet
some new people connect with Cindy keep
tabs and everything that we're doing and
share with people what you're doing
which is really a big part of it yeah
we're sure
most definitely so I think we're about
to close we are all right guys thank you
so much for joining us as always these
are a blast to do it is a weekly show so
if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary
take care
[Music]